---
priority: medium
effort: medium
depends: []
issue_type: documentation
status: Done
labels: [aitasks]
assigned_to: dario-e@beyond-eye.com
created_at: 2026-02-12 11:22
updated_at: 2026-02-13 12:12
completed_at: 2026-02-13 12:12
---

I want to document typical usage pattern and workflows of the aitask framework (this project) here I am going to write down in random order the way I am using aitasks for development. I will start the description of each workflow with (*) please help to organize this workflow willl be documented in the README.md file: write them in better english add details (links in the README.md) of each tool and skill i am referencing in the workflow I describe. fill missing details, and create a plan with a step for each workflow to be added in the README.md. here we start start:

(*) while running aitask-pick skill for a task implementation and waiting for the agent exploration or implementation to complete, use a separate terminal tab/windowd with the ait board tool to review other tasks, change priority, update metadata and dependency, and if an idea for a new task come up open a new window from the ait board with the n shortcut that launch ait create. Usually I have a terminal window tab always open with the ait create bash script already launched to immediately capture task ideas as they come

(*) Complex tasks: aitask framework is built to make it easy to decompose complex tasks in child tasks, define dependencies between them, and automatically provide context about relevant sibling tasks when we are implementing a specific sibling with aitask-pick. the context provided (ask can be seen in the source of the aitask-pick skill) are the actual execution and changes done in each child tasks as documented in archived aiplans for executed childre. Child task decompositio is a very powerful feature that allow to implement complex features in a more controlled and disciplined way. the aitask-pick skill has instructions to automatically identify complex tasks as candidates to be decomposed in child tasks, but frequently I want to force the decomposition I just add a line in the task description, like "this is a complex task: please decompose in child tasks" or something similar

(*) the aitask_create batch script make it easy to assign the metadata for each tasks when created. the task description itself is done with simple consecutive line edits for each paragraph of the task description, no external editor (although it is possible in the end to open the task description with the default system editor for final touches if needed, but this is not recommended. Claude is perfectly able to understand task descriptions that are not "beatiful" nor well structured, with missing details. and in any case the workflow implemented by aitask framework is based on the idea of iterative refinement. what is most important to do with aitask_create is capture the ideas in the moment they come, write them even as some flow of consciousness format, adding details and additional ideas as they come without trying to organized them. the most important thing is "capturing intent". and the in the rest of workflow will come the refinement: 1) organization and prioritaztion in the board tui, and the progressive refinement when picked for implementation with aitask-pick

(*) github issue workflow. the framework have the aitask-issue-import, and aitask-issue-update to integrate with github issue management, with aitask-issue-import we can import a github issue to a task including labels and comments. a link to the original issue page is created in the task metadata. when an aitask implementation in done using the aitask-pick workflow, the workflow will automatically update the original github issue with implementation details and reference to to aiplans of the implemented task in the issue comment, with reference of the actual commits with the implementation, and automatically close the issue if wanted. so github issue based development workflow are fully supported

(*) implementing multiple tasks in parallel (single developer or multiple developer) are supported. the aitask-pick skill when beginning working on a task will change its status on Implementing adding the email of the developer working on it and commit and push the update task, so anybody can know at any time (including multiple ai agents that a single user can run) which tasks are currently being worked on. If multiple developers are working in parallel on multiple tasks before running aitask-pick it is a good a idea if possible to run "git pull" so that we have un updated status of which task are in the work. When running on multiple tasks in parallel it is much safer using the use git worktree feature included in the aitask-pick workflow, unless you are a single developer and only giving work to multiple claude code instances and you are sure that the tasks do not interfer with each other you can still go with development in current branch.

(*) the aitask framework is built for working from the terminal, and more specifically working with a terminal emulator like warp, or tmux, ghostty, that support multiple terminal tabs/panes that you easily switch from tab to another with a simple keyboard shortcut. this make working with multiple claude sessions, and tabs where you have open aitask board or running the ait create script for adding more tasks, much more efficient. it is also very useful to see in real the curred diff vs the last commited version code. this is possible in most IDEs. so in theory you could run a terminal window inside an ide and watch for the current modified files in another ide pane. this can work. but I found using the the warp cli (that also support multitab terminal sessions switchable with keyboard shortcut much more efficient) the warp cli has also integration with claude code and viewing current changes. see [200~https://www.warp.dev/windows-terminal~. it is avaiable for linux/macos/windows.
