---
priority: medium
effort: medium
depends: []
issue_type: documentation
status: Done
labels: [web_site]
assigned_to: dario-e@beyond-eye.com
implemented_with: claudecode/opus4_6
created_at: 2026-03-02 23:53
updated_at: 2026-03-03 00:19
completed_at: 2026-03-03 00:19
---

One kind of aitask that can spawned in parallel to almost any other tasks without causing conflicts, is planning and child decomposition for a complex task or new feature. I want to document this a new workflow in  website documentation that can be a subpage of the Parallel development workflow page. First of all of what we are talking about? we are talking about, after defining a complex aitask that require child decomposition, run only its planning and child decomposition phase with all the iterative refinement of the plan for each of the child tasks based on the user/developer feedback on each version of the child decomposition plan. Why this is a good candidate for parallel development? because it does not involve change in the source code. it is all design work without changes to the code, but still work that need to be done. also the aitask-pick skill and the task-workflow skill are designed to verify the plan generated by the intial child decomposition and this is an additional garantee that work done in this design phase with the child decompsition of the task will be still relevant at actual implementation time. Also child task decompositions often create task lists that can be lists can be safely execute in parallel. So this is the idea for the workflow,  verify the details of what I described checking the actual skills I  mentioned and document this wrokflow. ask me question if you need clarifications
